Artistic Merit
Project Summary: Please summarize your project (briefly describe what the project is, when and where it will take place, who/what is being featured, artist(s) involved, community or student participation, final presentation, and any other information that you feel is appropriate). *
 
1100 characters remain

Please explain the goals you hope to achieve by undertaking this project. *
 
1100 characters remain

How do you plan to evaluate the quality of your project? Explain your evaluation process and when it takes place. *
 
850 characters remain

If this is a collaborative project, who are the other primary artists? (Individuals Only) *
 
750 characters remain

Audience Development
Describe your target audience for the public component of this project and explain how you will promote/market your project to this audience. Be specific. *
 
1000 characters remain

If applicable to this project, how will you present your art form to a wider audience (other than your target audience)? If wider audience development is not applicable to this project, please explain. *
 
1000 characters remain

Financial Management and Accountability
Describe the applicant's past experience in administering similar project(s) where the applicant has been financially responsible for the outcome. *
 
650 characters remain

Project Budget
Include the full Project Expenses and any other sources of funding or support in your Project Revenue. Any in-kind contribution must also be included as an expense.
Mark your contributions as either Projected (P) or Confirmed (C) within the Revenue table.
Any confirmed in-kind contributions must be documented with a letter or email in your support material.
After you complete your Project Expenses with your total budget and your Project Revenue with all other sources of contributions, your RACC Grant Amount Request will automatically calculate at the bottom of the screen when the page is saved.
Please Note: Organizations must have a plan to match the RACC grant request with one-to-one matching funds that may be all cash or a combination of cash and in-kind contributions.

(spreadsheet-like entry omitted)

Please use this space to provide additional Project Budget information, if necessary. This could include proposed vendors, break out of fee calculations, or fuller descriptions of line items above. (Optional)
 
400 characters remain

Project Revenue

(spreadsheet-like entry omitted)

Please use this space to provide additional Project Revenue information, if necessary. This could include history of proposed funding support, fundraiser plan details, or fuller descriptions of line items above. (Optional)
 
400 characters remain

Closing Statement
Please provide a closing statement incorporating any additional information to make the case for your Project Grant proposal. *
 
1500 characters remain

Support Material Page
All applicants must submit materials to support their Project Grant request.  Please see the Project Grant Guidelines for more details, as well as the checklist below for required materials. Support Material Checklist: *
 Letters or Emails to Verify Confirmed In-Kind Donations  
 Recent Publicity Materials and/or Reviews  
 Work Samples to Showcase Previous Work/Programming  
 Resumes or Bios  
 Organizations: Summary and Mission Statement  
 Organizations: Budget for Current Fiscal Year  

Mark the Type of Work Sample Submitted: Work Sample Types *
 Up to 10 Images  
 Video  
 Audio  
 Manuscript  
 Collaborator Work Samples  

 

GrantsOnline will only accept .JPG, .TIFF, .MP3, .MP4, .MOV, .DOC, .XLS and .PDF files, any other files will not be accepted through the online submission process. All applicants are allotted 500MB of storage for their supplementary materials so please plan accordingly when choosing your materials.

IMPORTANT: When formatting your materials, please note that work samples and supplemental materials will be shared and reviewed by panelists electronically.
As a reminder the following materials are required:
Letters Verifying Confirmed In-Kind Donations: Letters must be signed, however if submitting a copy of an e-mail it must come from the e-mail address of the donor. Each letter must include the market value of the in-kind donation.Recent Publicity Materials and/or Reviews: No more than (3) examples total.Work Samples: An applicant may submit images, video, audio or links to online documentation. Up to 10 images allowed for each applicant (counts as (1) work sample). Audio and video total running time not to exceed 15 minutes. Applicants allowed (3) work samples maximum, if necessary to showcase different artistic mediums or collaborating artists. Resumes or Bios from artist and collaborating artists (if applicable).Organizations Must Submit: An Organizational Summary and Mission Statement, Summary Budget of Current Fiscal Year, and Bios of Project Lead Staff and Artists.

OPTIONAL: You can submit video or audio links in place of video or audio files. Please include all links in a single PDF document and upload *
