Providing access to the agora for everybody.

Creative use of obsolete equipment.

Social public technology.

A continuation of the creative subversion of large technological networks.

We are privileged to provide free domestic telephone calls, voicemail, and telephone-mediated services.

If users don't have someone to call, we can provide a presence on the other end. We have operators on shifts to talk to users in real time.

I think artistic merit comes from two things, expressing relationships and contraints, which can be another way to emphasize relationships.

For Futel, the artistic constraints are the payphone interface - a kiosk, a handset, and a keypad. The relationships are between the Futel users, both when directly talking to someone on the phone, or with delayed interactions.

We like to preserve payphones. We like to keep that public hardware alive.

We like that our creative content is camouflaged behind an ordinary public facade.

We like using the phone as our platform because the phone system was the first hacker ecosystem, occupied by groups like YIPL, phone phreaks, and BBSs. The phone system was the first computer that ordinary people interacted with.

We are not phreaks or blackhat hackers, we're the opposite - we're buying service and giving it away. But we are subverting a network, we're confusing people and showing them a new way to interact.

We like to create art out of boring things - voicemail, phone menus, conference calls, dialtones, busy signals, and other aural artifacts.

Phones and computers are amazing tools, but their ubiquity has brought unexpected drawbacks. Ever seen two people on a date, both looking at their phones? Ever seen someone jaywalk while looking down at their phone?

To what extent are our interactions mediated by intelligent machines? Who is doing the talking when we let them decide who we interact with and what constitutes appropriate topics of communication?

We believe that the time has come to greet each other not with our heads down, staring at our hands and begging for the permission of the minds that oversee our networks, but proudly, standing tall, with our eyes open and aware of our surroundings.

We are primarily driven by the basic needs that we see on the streets every day, by giving something away that is cheap for us but valuable to the recipient. But we hope that we can also build a tower of Babel on top of that, a monument of telephones and switching networks and cascading psychological structures.
