https://www.oregonmetro.gov/tools-partners/grants-and-resources/sponsorship-opportunities

Organization
Futel

Organization mission
Futel refurbishes salvaged payphones and makes them freely available to the public.

Area served
Portland metro region

Please list past and current relationship(s) with Metro (e.g., partner on program or project, grant or sponsorship recipient, contractor). (150 words maximum)
We have not received grants from Metro or had direct partnerships with Metro. We have received grants from local groups including RACC, the Precipice Fund, and Awesome Portland, and have partnered with Open Signal, Free Geek, and the Personal Telco Project.

Program or activity for which sponsorship is being requested
We will maintain and provide service to our 8 existing installations, and be ready to deploy new installations.

Date of program or activity
Our installations will be available at all times during the entire period, July 2022 through June 2023.

Location of event (if applicable)
Eight sites on public sidewalks in SE, NE, and N Portland. One site inside Right To Dream Too.

Groups and/or individuals reached
Futel phones can be used from public sidewalks. While we don't require identification, houseless people are frequent users.

Purpose of program or activity
We provide free calls, communication services and participatory creative opportunities to the public.

Dollar amount requested (include in kind support)
$1000. We will receive in-kind support worth $2000 from site hosts and volunteer workers.

Please explain how sponsorship funds (or in-kind support) will be used (150 words maximum)
Sponsorship funds:
$250 cloud computing services
$250 telephony services
$250 installation hardware (payphones, pedestals)
$250 IT hardware (routers, VOIP)
In-kind support:
$1000 site host donations (internet, power, supplies, maintenance)
$1000 volunteer labor

In 2010 the Metro Council adopted six desired outcomes for the region including 1) equity, 2) vibrant communities, 3) healthy eco-systems, 4) economic prosperity, 5) leadership on climate change and 6) safe and reliable transportation.
Please explain how sponsorship funds will contribute to advancing any of the six desired outcomes (150 word maximum)
We promote community and equity by providing radically accessible communication services and creative opportunity. Our installations strengthen neighborhood identity with artistic voice and audio works which emphasize local issues and history. We hope to give a voice to all people by repurposing what was once a common example of urban furniture.

A sponsorship request should meet at least one of the following goals: a) helps Metro connect with specific audiences, b) helps your organization engage with and educate stakeholders on a key issue for Metro, c) provides opportunity for residents to learn about and engage with Metro.
Please describe how the sponsorship request meets at least one of these goals (150 word maximum)
Community education is a core goal of our project. Local features showcased on our installations provide a living link to history with two way communication where the audience is a participant.

Metro strives to cultivate diversity, advance equity and practice inclusion in all of its work.
Please explain how the sponsorship supports Metro's values (50 word maximum) *
The radically accessible nature of our installations, and the simple value of our free telephony and services, allows us to bring in diverse audiences. We purposefully remove barriers that would prevent people from using our sites.

Please describe the benefits that come with the level of sponsorship you’re requesting. Be as specific as possible.
Sponsorship will enable our existing installations to remain working for the project duration, and will let us be prepared to install new ones. Funds will contribute to hardware replacement and repair, and the purchase of services including telephony. Users of our public sites in Portland will continue to access free telephony services, including calls, voicemail, and service directories, and to participate in our interactive creative projects. We logged over 22,000 interactions, including over 9,300 outgoing calls, in 2020.
