Wildcard Line episodes 2 and 3 released

Contribute to the Wildcard Line from any Futel phone!


Presentations

Talks were given at Decon+Reuse '17, the annual conference of the Building Materials Reuse Association: “King Solomon’s Mines: The Greatest Salvage Treasure Revealed In The Vault Of The Payphone”, and at Open Source Bridge: "Futel: The Network We Deserve".


Grants

An Ann Arbor Awesome Foundation $1,000 mini-grant was awarded to Futel to create a new free public phone in downtown Ypsilanti. We also received hardware grants of essential equipment from Personal Telco Project and Free Geek Portland, and from individuals. We thank our donors, which enable us to expand and maintain our operations!


New feature: Broadband Payphone Calling

Futel is pleased to announce the rollout of Broadband Payphone Calling to every Futel telephone. With Broadband Payphone Calling, the user does not need to bother with dialing or even choosing the recipient for a call. Simply choose Broadband Payphone Calling, and multiple payphones will ring simultaneously until one is picked up. Uses of Broadband Payphone Calling include oracles, weather reports, and the initiation of serendipitous friendships. You never know who you’ll be talking to next with Broadband Payphone Calling - literally!


Party Line #2 published

Find back issues of Party Line at Microcosm Publishing.


Internet access for Right To Dream Too

Right To Dream Too moved to a new location on the eastside, but didn't have internet access. We were able to secure a donation of access for them from Freewire, in a partnership between Futel, Freewire, and the Village Coalition.


Continued service

Most importantly, Futel maintained service to our three public phones and phone at Right 2 Dream Too. We provided over 19 thousand free calls, including 57 which used our directory to call the mayor and 14 to call the Druid of Sissyphus Gardens, received over 200 calls to our conference line, and received 84 contributions to our audio zine, the Wildcard Line.

