"tell us a little about yourself"

My name is Karl Anderson. I split my time between Portland, Oregon and Ann Arbor. I was encouraged to apply for an Awesome Ann Arbor grant by Dug Song, and I'm working with Mark Maynard to bring an installation here.

I've been involved in several industrial art projects, usually based around making useful, or at least interesting, items out of trash. The most straightforward thing I have made may be a human powered amphibious jetboat built from dumpstered bikes and house demolition detritus. Other Futel contributors, all volunteers, include a bike messenger, a designer, a construction worker, and electrical and software engineers.

"tell us about your awesome project"

Futel is a free telephone company and 501(c)(3) organization. We offer domestic calls, messaging, human interaction, connections to services, and interactive audio art.  All services are free of charge. Some features are accessed from free payphones which we install in public places, and some are accessed from an incoming phone number.

Futel is a cross between a public service and a city-spanning art installation. We are inspired by public kiosks, shared experiences, the re-use of discarded technology, and unconventional interactions hidden behind ordinary exteriors. While Futel will always provide a straightforward and easily usable service, we also appreciate how art is formed by constraints, by roundabout paths or unexpected juxtapositions.

We currently have three public phones, the first of which was installed in 2014. Our phones are armored, weatherproof, and low-maintenance, they just need internet access and a solid place to attach them. We also provide free telephone service to Right To Dream Too, a rest area, shelter, and houseless advocacy organization in downtown Portland.

By the end of 2016, over 750 free outgoing calls were initiated per month from Futel phones, and over 50 interactive operator calls were logged throughout the year.

"how will you use the money"

We'd like to install a public free payphone at the Bell Telephone Building in Ypsilanti, which will provide Futel services tailored to Ypsilanti, and, of course, free calls.

About $300 will be applied towards service fees including hosting, telephony, and connectivity, providing over a year of service.

About $700 will be applied towards hardware and siting - a phone, enclosure, mounting hardware, IT equipment including routers and VOIP boxes, and various other durable or consumable items like hardware, cables, conduit, and concrete.
