Tell us about your awesome project

Futel is Portland's fastest growing free public phone network, with over five years of grant supported operations, including an Awesome Portland grant in September 2014. Our 13 phones made over 11,000 free calls in 2019 and provided hundreds of calls to other services and features. Our project embodies radical accessibility and provides both an essential public service and access to interactive artistic expression.

We are installing public hand washing stations and implementing a rigorous sanitation system for our phones. This will not only keep our public telephone users safe, it will provide an essential service for many people. We started this program in early April and plan to continue operating it as long as it remains relevant.

The corona virus pandemic leads us to find ways to address public hygiene needs. We notice that the use of our phones remains surprisingly high during this time of fear and distancing, and realize that many of our phone users don't have other options. Hand washing stations will fulfill are an obvious need for our users and many other people.


How will you use the money

We will deploy up to five more washing stations, and maintain existing stations. We will continue and expand our sanitation program.

Money will go towards building new stations, replacing existing stations and parts as they wear or are damaged, and buying supplies and hardware.

We have installed five hand washing stations already, and distributed sanitation kits to a crew of volunteers. However, we started this project without funding and without a budget for station repair or replacement.


Tell us a little about yourself

Karl Anderson is director of Futel. Previous public-facing projects include C.H.U.N.K. 666 and the Church of Robotron.

Mathew Lippincott provides station design and consultation. He is an engineer and advocate for public health and citizen science. Projects include PHLUSH, Airpup, and Futel.

Barnaby Casey provides station design and construction. Previous public facing projects include C.H.U.N.K. 666.

Seven volunteers host and maintain stations and perform daily sanitation and testing.


How will your project make Portland more awesome?

The project will address an immediate public health need in a way that is useful for people of all economic strata, and we will do so in a scrappy and DIY way, using common hardware and salvaged materials.


How did you hear about us?

Futel was an Awesome Portland grantee in September 2014, and several project participants have pitched Awesome Portland grant proposals over the years.
