3. Project Location
(eg: SE 33 & Yamhill). No worries if you do not have a location fixed yet.

up to 5 sidewalk or houseless village locations

5. What inspires you/your team to be involved in making a place with the Village Building Convergence this year?

VBC is an ideal venue for outreach and community engagement for the people we hope to reach with our work; I developed a project including a VBC exhibit with the Village Coalition Speaker's Bureau in 2018.


2. Project Description *
Tell us who you are (individually and/or as a community), what your goals are, and how you plan to get there. We encourage you to write 4-5 lines!

Futel installs free public payphones which provide calls, services, and artistic interactions. We have been active for five years and currently have phones in ten public locations, and provide phone service for Right To Dream Too. We hope to install up to five phones in Portland in 2020 which include programs created by and tailored for their local communities.


1. Team Skill-building *
Our projects are not designed to be spearheaded by an individual. We highly recommend a team approach and strategizing to build your team. Please describe your strategy for growing/building a team.

The creative projects which use the phones should not come from Futel, but from the iste hosts and communities. Futel intends to provide technical and project management skills to facilitate local artists who will be paid directly from our funding sources.


1. Describe your outreach strategy so far, if any.
Include existing organizational partnerships, neighborhood, volunteer networks you are/hope to be affiliated with.

Existing partnerships are with Open Signal, Village Building Coalition Speaker's Bureau, Right To Dream Too, Kenton Women's Village, Personal Telco, PDX Hackerspace. We hope to be affiated with more neighborhood and community organizations including community centers, artist spaces, media organizations, etc.


2. What is your proposed outreach plan? *
Include groups/individuals you are hoping to connect with.

My outreach plan is to secure funding and use it to secure the human resources end of artistic collaboration: calls for proposals, judging, paying artists, related admin work. In plain language, fund the labor of organizations invested in the community to find artists in that community. This is the model used for the successful 2019-2020 Futel RACC grant proposal with Open Signal, and the unsuccessful but educational 2017 Futel Metro grant proposal with Village Coalition Speaker's Bureau.

3. Do you have a fundraising and donation seeking strategy to help cover costs and build community? Please describe below.

My strategy is to continue to submit grant proposals. This is one of the areas I hope for City Repair help on, I've kept Futel running for five years solely on my fundraising ability, but I hope to mature this part of the project.


4. What kinds of creative communication strategies are you using/hoping to use to draw in interest? *
Attractive informative signage is a great way to invite local involvement.

The installations themselves are creative, perhaps even Situationist, and allow Futel to draw and engage with with diverse and surprising range of participants. We logged over 12,000 calls and thousands of curious interactions in 2018.


1. Community Needs *
What community ideas/needs are/is your team responding to? What inspires your project? What is bringing your community together to do this project?

Communication, community resiliance, history, inclusiveness, accessability. We are inspired by low tech and low brow communicators such as ham radio enthusiasts, zine publishers, phone phreakers, and street preaches. We bring the community together by providing both useful services and radically accessible participatory expression.

2. Community Assets *
What are your community assets, including people and material resources?

Futel is a group of 10 core volunteer and up to 20 irregular volunteers with various skills including technical, design, installation, and fundraising. Materially we are 12 phones deployed and running, and a basement full of phones, pedestals, parts, and construction materials.

Project Needs *
What resources, including people and materials, do you think you will need to complete your project?

Site development, outreach, publicity, funding. We always have a need for telephone and pedestal installation supplies and labor.


1. How do you plan on documenting your project? *

Website, yearly print publication.

2. How will you assess the success of your project? *
For example, what criteria will you use? How will you determine if you have met those criteria?

We log usage statistics, but the most important assessment is artist engagement and community engagement with the work of those artists.
