Mission statement:

Futel is a social service and arts organization with the mission of providing highly accessible communication tools. We install telephones in public locations which provide free telephone calls, services, and participatory experiences at all hours. We also provide free telephone and telecommunications services to houseless support and advocacy organizations, and develop interactive audio art pieces which are accessible from our public phones, incoming lines, and occasional gallery installations.

We use salvage payphones, thrift store landlines, obsolete IT hardware kept alive with open source firmware, rented cloud computers, and bulk telephony services paid for by the minute.

Org bio:

Futel is a 501(c)(3) organization founded by a bicycle courier and a software engineer. We installed our first public payphone in August 2014, and have continued to expand our services with the support of many volunteers and contributos. Recent funding has come from the Regional Arts and Culture Council and the Precipice Fund.

Technical details:

Futel operates on two substrates. We develop our services using open source VOIP and security software, and deploy them on cloud servers. Users interface with these with a motley collection of repuprosed payphones and obsolete used IT hwardware. The human glue that keeps this all together is a network of live operators and troubleshooters.


Part public service and part public art, Futel is keeping the payphone alive by installing them in public locations and offering free calls and interactive audio experiences. We feel that the constraints of the phone interface both spur creativity and pay homage to a generation of creative hackers.

Community support details:

Futel installed its first public telephone in August 2014, and has continued to expand its services with the support of ten to twenty volunteers and contributors per year since then. Recent funding has come from the Regional Arts and Culture Council and the Precipice Fund.

Our installations support their communities by improving neighborhood health through neighbor-driven placemaking. They are designed to benefit specific communities with services and features customized by and for local users. Examples include oral history gathering, interactive art, and the facilitation of community benefits.

Taglines

Operators are sometimes standing by
The insecure network for insecure people
Save your quarters for Robotron
The telephone of the future, today
Resistance is Futel
"Because you have to"
Working the net since 2014
An Immobile Phone Company

付徒劳
"to pay is futile", pronounced "futalo"
