Proposal for Futel phone installations at Multnomah County Library locations

Karl Anderson
operator@futel.net
503-395-7468

Objectives

Futel will provide telephones for Multnomah County Library locations. Futel phones which will provide telephone calls which are free to the user, as well as optional access to our interactive features.

Motivation

Futel installs free phones in public locations. Our phones provide free telephone calls, access to community resources, human interaction, and creative audio communication. We are inspired by the hackers and alternative publishers who created their own networks before computers and cellphones were ubiquitous.

Futel's main goal is to provide free useful services, but we have creative goals as well. We provide interactive audio projects and audio zines, and we are interested in preserving the rapidly disappearing public hardware itself.

Description

A Futel phone at a Multnomah County Library location will consist of a desktop telephone and a small router. The telephone will be a used desktop phone, corded or cordless. The router will be stored in a secure location, such as a locked cabinet, or a shelf inaccessible to the public. The telehone will be connected to the router with a telephone cord of any length, and the router will be connected to the internet with a wired or wireless internet connection.

Each phone will provide a dialtone which will provide free domestic calls. An audio menu customized for the Multnomah County Library location can be accessed which will provide a directory of social service and other destinations, as well as other services.

Incoming calls and 911 service can be enabled or disabled.

Futel will not monitor its users except as necessary to provide service.

Logistics

_ phones will be provided for _ months. The Multnomah County Library will pay Futel _ dollars for each month of service for all phones, payable on the first day of each month of service.

Damaged equipment will be repaired or replaced by Futel.

Each phone will need wall power and wired or wireless internet connectivity. When in use, bandwidth peaks at 115 KPBS up and down, and power peaks at 12 watts. When idle, bandwidth is negligible and power peaks at 10 watts.

All hardware remains the property of Futel and will be returned at the end of service.

References

For more information, see our website at http://futel.net.

An Oregonian article describes an existing Futel phone:

http://www.oregonlive.com/multimedia/index.ssf/2015/04/futels_free_phone_service_give.html
