
The oracle sound is three or more streams
Each stream plays a type of sound file at random intervals
No stream is too loud or easy to understand

Background stream: usually continuous sound, subtle, covering, user is distracted by it, sound files fade in and out
Sound files are 10-30 seconds long, new file starts every 10-30 seconds, generally there is usually 1 or 2 playing, rarely 0
Examples: wind, static, electric buzzing, radio interference, phone switching noises tones etc, clicking, breathing,

Foreground main stream: intermittent sound, conversational, inspiring, user strains to hear it, sound fades or is abrupt in or out
Sound files are 1-5 seconds long, new file starts every 10-30 seconds? One at at time, pauses in between
Examples: highly distorted speech, highly distorted laughing/crying/breathing

Foreground other stream: intermittent sound, noises, confusing, user is distracted by it
Sound files are 1 second long, new file starts every 10-30 seconds? One at at time, rarer
Examples: chair being drawn back, door slam, distorted exclamation, person falling, cry, animal sound


Leadup to oracle sound:

oracle-dead-intro-hello
Hello.

oracle-dead-intro-to-skip-instructions
To skip instructions, press any key.

oracle-dead-intro-motivation
This function will help you attempt to communicate with dead individuals who were known to you during their lives.

oracle-dead-intro-no-guarantee-recipient
Futel cannot guarantee that the party communicated with is your intended recipient.

oracle-dead-intro-no-guarantee-content
Futel is not responsible for the content of any communications with any entities.

oracle-dead-insructions-enter-numbers
Please enter some numbers that connect you with the deceased individual.

oracle-dead-insructions-enter-numbers-details
Numbers entered can be any numbers that identify the recipient, or are meaningful to your relationship with the recipient.

oracle-dead-insructions-enter-numbers-examples
Some examples are the recipient's street address, their phone number, the year you met, a zip code where you lived together, or their age at time of death, 

oracle-dead-insructions-enter-numbers-many
You may enter as many numbers as you wish, in any order. You may take as much time as you need.

oracle-dead-insructions-enter-numbers-star
Press star between each number.

oracle-dead-insructions-enter-numbers
(repeat)

oracle-dead-then-press-pound
Then press pound.

oracle-dead-thank-you-for-using-fewtel
Thank you for using Futel.

oracle-dead-instructions-when-ready
When you are ready to attempt to contact your intended recipient, press pound.

oracle-dead-setup-attempting
We are attempting to contact your intended recipient.

oracle-dead-setup-to-relinquish
To relinquish contact, press pound.

oracle-dead-thank-you-for-using-fewtel
(repeat)

oracle-dead-debrief-to-share
If you would like to share your experiences with this communications medium, please press pound.

oracle-dead-debrief-otherwise
Otherwise, press any key.

oracle-dead-debrief-record
Please record your statement after the beep, then press any key.

oracle-dead-thank-you-for-using-fewtel
(repeat)
