NOTES

https://www.oregonmetro.gov/tools-partners/grants-and-resources/community-placemaking-grants

objectives
placemaking: connections to each other and and places are strengthened
equality: POC/marginalized community have power, resources, influence
partnerships: partnership with each other and metro
leadership: people participate, emerging leaders

reviewer questions
How impactful do you think this project will be?
How strong are the equity and inclusion components of the proposal?
How feasible is the project to implement?
How well does it meet the objectives of the Community Placemaking program?

organizations may propose to use grant money for general operating support if
their mission and ongoing work through June 2022 is clearly aligned with the four Community
Placemaking objectives that begin on page 5. These funds would be available after March 1, 2021 and can
be used at the organization’s discretion to carry out its mission by covering costs such as staff time, rent,
programming, overhead, etc.

QUESTIONS

the fact that this is a general operating support proposal is only mentioned in one sentence, should it be emphasized?

need document of insurance coverage from fiscal sponsor?


APPLICATION


1. What is the critical and current community challenge or opportunity your proposal addresses? *limit
1,000

Futel mixes artistic and practical goals through free public communication services that link locations to history and provide a mouthpiece for local voices. By combining participatory art and free telephony, Futel offers diverse audiences a connection across the barriers of gentrification and urban development.
Gentrification and other urban economic forces have displaced communities in Portland for decades. Some of these forces involve the targeted commodification of community-oriented privileges, such as transportation options and social spaces. We seek to strengthen one aspect of community-oriented public space by reintroducing an interactive public kiosk that was once common - the payphone booth.

2. Who will you be working with? List your partners (groups or people). * limit 1,000

Open Signal and seven other sites host installations in Portland, which are accessible to the public 24 hours a day.

Ten operators provide live interaction for all Futel installations.

Volunteers, participating as needed, work in installation and maintenance, editing and layout, design, software engineering and operations, and audio engineering.

TechSoup provides subsidized telecommunication services and equipment. TechSoup equips social enterprises with technology solutions and skills.

Personal Telco Project provides operational support and IT hardware. Personal Telco Project builds shared community networks and provides technology education.

PDX Hackerspace is the fiscal sponsor. PDX Hackerspace promotes and encourages technical, scientific, and artistic skills through individual projects, social collaboration, and education, with a location at 7608 N Interstate Avenue serving as a local community hub.

3. Describe what you would do with this grant. (If this is for operating support, share your mission and
an overview of your ongoing work expected through June 2022. To be eligible, there should be clear
alignment with the four Community Placemaking objectives.) * limit 2,500

Futel's mission is to provide public, participatory creative experiences as well as communication tools. Over five years of ongoing work, we have produced programs for our installations and kept these installations maintained and available to the public.

This grant will provide operating support. We will use this grant to grow and maintain our network of public installations and the participatory creative audio works served from our telephones.

We will deploy one or more new public installations in Portland and continue to maintain our existing public installations.

We will develop one or more interactive audio works, which will be accessible from our installations, and continue to maintain our audio showcases of previous works.

We will produce one or more episodes of our participatory audio project, the Wildcard Line, with contributions from users of our public installations.

All installations will also be usable as free telephones and will provide other features common to Futel installations, including voicemail, communication services, and interactive audio art.

We will also continue our public hand washing station and telephone sanitation program, which we initiated in April 2020 to adapt our installations to Covid-related challenges for interactive public art. Each installation will include a hand washing station which is usable by the public. Volunteers will disinfect our installations regularly.

4. Racial equity is core to the Community Placemaking program. Is there anything else you want to share
about how your efforts are led by, include and/or benefit Black, Indigenous, people of color or other
historically marginalized communities? * limit 1,500

Our installations are radically accessible. Participants can walk up and use them from the sidewalk without money, an app, or any identifying information. By combining art and a well-understood public service, we provide a unique entry point for interaction and offer chances to join participatory creative experiences. With these two aspects we bring in participants and collaborators who would otherwise be hard to reach with public art alone.

Futel has hosted work by several artists. BIPOC-led work that Futel has facilitated includes pieces by Sharita Towne, Patricia Vazquez, and Machado Mijiga.

While we don't track our users, we do talk to a lot of houseless users, and houseless themes are often present in the contributions from Futel users to our interactive projects.

5. What kind of impact do you hope to have? How will your efforts help people feel more connected to
each other? * limit 1,500

We measure our impact by monitoring how often our installations are used. In 2019, we measured over 350 instances of users selecting and experiencing various audio art offerings, over 100 instances of users contributing to participatory audio works, and over 50 instances of users engaging in live interactivity with Futel staff and other users.

6. Where will this happen? How will your efforts make people feel more connected to this place/these
places? * limit 1,500

Our eight existing Portland public installations are located at:

- SE Clinton Street just east of 13th Avenue, south side of the street
- SE Taylor Street east of 23rd Avenue, north side of the street
- NE Ainsworth Street just west of NE 8th Avenue-9th Avenue Alley, north side of the street
- NE 27th Avenue-28th Avenue Alley, north of Killingsworth Street, west side of the street
- SE Woodward Street east of 16th Avenue, north side of the street
- NE Killingsworth Street east of 13th Avenue, north side of the street
- NE 8th Avenue, south of Prescott Street, west side of the street
- NE MLK Boulevard south of Graham Street, east side of the street

We also have one phone for residents and staff of Right to Dream Too, and one at Upright Brewing.

Our goal is to provide installations in diverse and scattered locations in Portland. Our locations provide a way for people to meet and make their mark on a neighborhood through an asynchronous shared space, interacting within the same space at different times.

7. Is there anything else you want to share? * limit 1,000

Futel believes in democratizing communication, applying a hacker spirit and a mix of old and new technology.

Inspired by models of DIY publishing and distribution such as zines, file sharing, and ham radio, we want our network to be useful for both making art and making calls. Oral history and storytelling have been a natural direction for our projects, but we are most effective when we can take these concepts in a new media direction, combining audio content with public participation. We have a proven track record of using grant funds to successfully implement this over several years, including with Hold The Phone, produced in collaboration with Open Signal and RACC.


Describe what you would do with this grant by breaking it into a few parts.
- For each part: Describe the major activities or expenses.
- Metro grant money needed: Estimate the money needed for each part.

A:

Deployment of one or more new public installations, expanding the capabilities of the current network of installations.

$2500

B:

Maintenance of existing installations. Repair and replace hardware, including kiosks, IT equipment, signage, etc.

$2200

C:

Production of participatory audio works to be experienced via installations, the internet, and other media. Stipends for artists and implementors, audio recording equipment, and support.

$1600

D:

Related productions, media, and outreach. Website development and maintenance, print publications including the yearly newsletter, and other media outreach.

$900

E:

IT and administration related operations. Internet connectivity, telecommunications, cloud computing, and website hosting services. Evaluation of solutions to effectively reach current and future artistic and social goals. Development, implementation, and operation of projects.

$2300


2. Do you have or need other money to see your proposal through? (This does not affect the evaluation
of your application. It helps the review panel understand the scope of your proposal.)
Other funds already secured? 0
Other funds still needed? $9500



Document uploads
(Encouraged) Upload letters of support.
(Optional) Upload photos, maps or materials that help us understand your proposal.
(Optional) If applicable, upload a letter stating permission to use property by land owner or manager.
(Optional) Upload your/your fiscal sponsor's 501(c)(3) IRS determination letter or a 501(c)(3) tax-
exempt status statement and Employer Identification Number. This is not required for schools or
government agencies,


