Title

Futel: How Creating North America's Fastest Growing Public Telephone Network Fulfills Our Objectives

Abstract

Futel is keeping payphones alive by rescuing them from the scrappers and installing them in public locations, where they provide free calls, interactive experiences, and live operator assistance. We currently support 12 phones in Portland, Detroit, and Ypsilanti.

Why do we do it? Is our work sustainable? What aspects of the project make it effective, and how can these ideas be applied to other projects? What is the secret to harnessing anxiety, obsession, and poor judgement to reach dizzying heights of success?

Some of these questions will be answered, and some will only lead to further questions. Along the way, I will discuss our approach to technological art and public service, and how the constraints of our interfaces give us the freedom to reach or at least confuse people.

Background, what will the attendee learn?

The subject of this talk is the Futel project (http://futel.net), but the tech behind Futel will be a very small part of it. The talk will focus on the motivations and benefits of working on projects that don't have immediate or obvious value like wages or notoriety, and ways to find creative applications for knowledge and skills. ToorCamp attendees don't need to be told "why hack", which is what these types of projects are - the interesting part of the talk will be in how to evaluate a project and make it effective in the absence of more obvious benefits like money.

History

This talk hasn't been given before, but I've given related talks about Futel, including at ToorCamp 2016 lightning talks, HOPE 12, and Teardown 2018.


Bio

Karl Anderson is a hardware and software experimenter who is good at thinking up projects but bad at predicting whether or not they will be practical. As director of Futel, he invites America to rediscover the immobile phone. With C.H.U.N.K. 666, he has created amphibious human-powered vehicles out of discarded bicycles and construction debris. With the Church of Robotron, he has built a post-apocalyptic training facility, indoctrination center, and reading room based on the tenets of a coin-operated video game.
