front cover XXX
back cover XXX

inside front: insidefront.txt DONE

alan bridge appreciation appreciation.txt DONE needs images

map: map.txt

2018 in review: review.txt DONE needs images

rant XXX

longmont: longmont.txt DONE
	full page

new phones: phones.txt DONE 

2018 operator log excerpts: operator.txt DONE needs images

support: support.txt DONE needs images

ack: ack.txt DONE


Revisions needed:

General

add page numbers
Block out the missing images when you can, I can figure out what's needed.
TAP page as filler?
I can find another image or two.
Can punt on the back cover with FU TEL logo like before


3 Apology Line

Remove final paragraph (see appreciation.txt)

4 Futel Service Map

shrink map or enlarge text to make locations less exact
replace > with larger indicator (like a 1em circle covering a city block) to make locations less exact
Current indicator is close, a little less exact could get the text as high resolution as the visual indicator.

Change line break for 1st label, one of:
"NE Ainsworth W of NE 8th Ave-9th Ave Alley,
N Side"
"NE Ainsworth
W of NE 8th Ave-9th Ave Alley, N Side"
I think the 1st label is hard to parse, partly because its 1st

5 Year in Review

Talks section inverts the title/venue, also rename HOPE (see review.txt)

-- Futel staff brought the message to the people at Donut.js with "Futel: Telecommunications Colossus of the Modern Age", at Teardown: Portland 2018 with "Futel: A Technology So Advanced We Leave It Out On The Street All Night", at The with "Futel: The Payphone, Devolved" at HOPE 12, and on the Opposable Thumbs podcast with an interview.

7 New Phones

labels are incorrect: upper right is PAZ, lower right is NE Killingsworth

13 Operator Log

Add one entry at end:
2018-12-30 13:56
After I introduced myself, the caller said, "Hello, operator, my name is Chase, and I'm looking to speak with... you!" I waited for them to continue fulfilling their desire, but they hung up after 30 seconds. I called back, but the line was busy.

Smaller font, reduce pages of log?
General

add page numbers
Block out the missing images when you can, I can figure out what's needed.
TAP page as filler?
I can find another image or two.
Can punt on the back cover with FU TEL logo like before
