title

Futel: How We Created North America's Most Successful Communications Network By Bolting Our Phones To Sidewalks And Letting Anybody Use Them For Free

Futel: America's Most Successful Communications Network

track

Strange Software


abstract

Part public service project and part public art installation, Futel is keeping payphones alive by rescuing them from the recycler and installing them in public locations, where they provide free calls, interactive experiences, and live operator assistance. We currently support six phones in Portland, Oregon and Ypsilanti, Michigan.

Why do we do it? Is our work sustainable? What aspects of the project make it effective, and how can these ideas be applied to other projects? Some of these questions will be answered, and some will only lead to further questions, but along the way, I will discuss our approach to technological art and how the constraints of our interfaces give us the freedom to reach, or at least confuse people.


keywords

technological art
guerrilla art
public art
social service
urban furniture
public works
payphone
telephony


What will the attendee learn? [PRIVATE]  (Required)

Specifically, attendees will learn about what Futel is, why the core ideas of the project are interesting, and how these ideas can be applied to other technological art and service projects.

More broadly, attendees will hear an extrapolation of the social economics ('emotional labor') of technological art projects. Why are we creative with technology? How do we make our creativity sustainable?

Draft outline:

* intro and overview
  * what is futel
  * what does futel offer
* motivation
  * why do we run futel
  * what are our goals
* evaluation
  * why is project evaluation important
  * what are the aspects of the service which are fundamental
* extrapolation
  * how can we apply these ideas to other technological art projects
  * what makes a project successful
  * how can we use our powers for good


Talk history [PRIVATE]

This particular talk hasn't been given before, it is a followup to previous talks, with a quick summary and history at the beginning.

Talks with video available:

Futel: The Telephone Of The Future, Curiosity Club, April 2015.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jw5OtRhOwO0

Futel: The Future Of The Past Of Telephony, Open Source Bridge, June 2014.
http://opensourcebridge.org/sessions/1322

Futel: Telecommunications Colossus of the Modern Age, DonutJS, February, 2018
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRh18Sqahhg&list=PLclEcT4yxER5Ezf8P52e2ZmBtwQv-gV0m&index=3&t=0s

Related but different talks:

Futel: Operators Are Sometimes Standing By, Portland Creative Coders, August 2105.
Interview, Karaoke Research Council season 1 episode 3, January 2016.
Futel Activity Report, ToorCamp, June 2016.
Futel: An Immobile Phone Company, i3Detroit, October 2016.
Futel: The Network We Deserve, Open Source Bridge, June 2017.
King Solomon’s Mines: The Greatest Salvage Treasure Revealed In The Vault Of The Payphone, Decon + Reuse '17, September, 2017


Bio  (Required)

Karl Anderson is a hardware and software experimenter who is good at thinking up projects but bad at predicting whether or not they will be practical. As director of Futel, he runs Portland's fastest-growing payphone network. With C.H.U.N.K. 666, he has created amphibious human-powered vehicles out of discarded bicycles and construction debris. With the Church of Robotron, he has built a post-apocalyptic training facility, indoctrination center, and reading room based on the tenets of a coin-operated video game.
