Proposal for a Futel phone at the IPRC

Karl Anderson
operator@futel.net
503-395-7468

Futel phone

Introduction

Futel installs free phones in public locations. Our phones provide free telephone calls, access to community resources, human interaction, and creative audio communication. We are inspired by the hackers and alternative publishers who created their own networks before computers and cellphones were ubiquitous.

Objectives

We want to install a Futel phone in the IPRC, which will provide access to our interactive features, as well as a free telephone calls.

Motivation

Futel's main goal is to provide free useful services, but we have creative goals as well. We provide interactive audio projects and audio zines, and we are interested in preserving the rapidly disappearing public hardware itself.

Description

A Futel phone in the IPRC will be a payphone on a pedestal near the large sidewalk door.

Like all Futel phones, all interaction is through the telephone handset and keypad. On lifting the handset, the user hears a recorded menu which provides access to a free dialtone, a directory of community services, interactive features, and interesting destinations to call, and a human operator. Incoming calls can disabled, or can be enabled and indicated by a silent light.

Attached are a photo of a phone and pedestal of this size, and a photo of our larger public installation on Clinton Street.

Logistics

The payphone and pedestal are approximately two feet square and four feet high, with a wider wooden base for stability, weighing approximately 75 pounds. Ideally, the installation will be near the large exterior door. If desired, the pedestal can be on lockable casters, and can be wheeled onto the sidewalk while the door is open.

The phone will need wall power and wired or wireless internet connectivity. When in use, bandwidth peaks at 115 KPBS up and down, and power peaks at 12 watts. When on and idle, bandwidth is negligible and power peaks at 10 watts.

References

For more information, see our website at http://futel.net.

An Oregonian article describes an existing Futel phone:

http://www.oregonlive.com/multimedia/index.ssf/2015/04/futels_free_phone_service_give.html
