What problem is your idea, business, or organization solving?

Futel is a social service and arts organization with the mission to provide radically accessible communication tools. We install payphones in public locations which provide free telephone calls and services at all hours. We provide free phone service and IT consulting to houseless support and advocacy organizations, and connect them with donated internet service. We also develop interactive audio art pieces which can be accessed and manipulated from our public phones, incoming lines, and occasional gallery installations. We currently have five public installations in Portland, OR and Ypsilanti, MI, and provide service to Right To Dream Too, a tiny house village and houseless support organization.

How do you, your business, or organization interact with your community?

Our installations are based on community interaction and are geared towards the needs of their neighbourhoods. They are also designed to support ongoing placemaking efforts such as oral history gathering and community resilience.

As an organization supported entirely by grants and donations, Futel has succeeded due to community involvement and volunteer labor with support from the Regional Arts and culture Council, Precipice Fund, Awesome Portland, Twilio, Personal Telco Project, Free Geek, and individual donors.

Our efforts are also driven by partnerships and joint projects, most recently with the Village Coalition and Personal Telco Project.

If you were awarded a Creator Awards prize, what new benchmarks would you be able to reach?

A Creator Award will allow Futel to support several artistic and social service goals. We will be able to deploy more installations and continue to fund our existing six installations. Increased staffing will also allow us to expand the interactive features we offer.

The most important benchmark will be the ability to support a community development staff role beyond our current jack-of-all-trades volunteer. This will allow us to identify and develop services and features targeted to the needs of more communities and neighbourhoods. Our purpose is the development of egalitarian communication tools, and we are excited to use our tools, expertise, and creativity to do that in new ways.
